This book jumps write in when the main character, Arthur, learns that his house will be torn down in order to build a bypass. Shortly after this his friend, ford, gets him drunk so that he can tell him two very important things; a) he is a robot and b) earth is about to (quite ironically) be destroyed inorder to build a buypass. I think the second of these two things is the call to adventure. Before Arthur can even refuse the callback, We are moved over two when we meet the next character, Zaphod, He is the president. However later we will learn that the only reason that he is presedent is so that he can build a space ship, and then steal it (the ships name is the heart of gold). Arthur and Ford where able to hictch a ride onto the Vogon ship (the ship that was going to destroy earth). Now I also think that "Gathering of Spiritual Guides" is skipped in this book, because the only one he knows for much of the beggining of the book is Ford. Arthur crosses the threshold when he **almost** talks two diffoerent Vogons out of killing them. But in the end he fails and is thrown into space where he and Ford very improbably land on Zaphod's newly stolen ship. It turns out that with almost equal imporbability Zaphod happens to be Ford's Cousin (sort-of) and Arthur knows both Zaphod and his wife Trillian from when they where on earth. But there is reason for this. The ship is a first of its kind, and it uses someting called an imporbability drive to get from one place to another. A side affect of using the imporability drive is that very improbable things will probably happen. Now to be honest I really don't think that the Hero's Journey can be applied to this book. This book (acttually quite nicely) places you in the middle of it all and has lots of difforent littler things that happen instead of one big one. This meens that Road of Trials could very well have been when earth was getting destroyed, when they where getting thrown off the ship, or anything that came after that. The other thing that is difforent about this book is that the "hero" does not ever usually do anything (except in the instance of the wale). It is usually others doing the saving and he is just along for the ride. The belly of the whale deffenentally does not happen, our hero is quite alive for the whole time (however our friends Ford, Zaphod, and Trillian do go onconsios for a little while). Now they are on the ship and they are headed off to a planet that everyone thinks does not exist, it is a plannet that houses people who make planets. They get there, are almost attacked by nuculear missiles (and saved by a whale, Arthur, and a bit of improbability), but finally make it to the planet where all but Arthur are gassed and pass out. I don't think that Atonement with Father happens. The Apotheosis does happen. It happens when Arthur learns that earth and all of its inhabetence where actually part of a 10 million year science experiment done by mice. He then learns that he, being the last human, is actually quite valuable. Unfortuanately this does not work for him becuase he, his brain acctually, is so valuable that the mice would like to take it. They then askape, and are off to the next adventure, whatever that is (it proabbly has to do with eating somehting at the end of the universe). 